# Welcome to Meta Design Challenge
## Empowering Distributed local communities Globally through Literacy in Online Project Management Methods and Tools

## Background
In view of the global pandemic continues to interfere with social activities on a global level, and data-driven human activities becoming ever more ubiquitous, the world is adapting existing, yet under utilized ICT infrastrutures to cope with this unprecedented challenge in supply chain dynamics. Opportunities to better integrate resources in global supply chain integration comes in three aspects, Talent Integration (TI), Technology Infrastructure Integration(TII), and Territorial Resource Integration (RI). In order to introduce systematic approaches to regulate Supply Chain Integration at a global scale, This proposed Meta Design Challenge (MDC), plans to invite individuals and institutions around the world to participate in this global exercise. 

## Goal
The goal of this open-ended design challenge focused on Project Management is to disseminate knowledge about data-intensive social collaboration. It can be further explained in the following three sub-goals:
1. Formalize Participatory Design: Supported by scalable project management platforms while minimizing the barriers to entries in terms of cost to operate the project management tools and learning curves. Concretely, this means that project participants with less exposure to ICT knowledge, and eventually non-English native users should still have reasonably convenient access to digital assets in the project workflow. 
1. Trustworthy Data Agency: A platform that enables software and data reuse without sacrificing privacy. From a concrete operational viewpoint, this means the project management platform should subscribe to a open-source, even free source technical architecture principles, so that project participants with different level of economic status can all enjoy similar level of privatized data asset management services. All project members should be provided with a similar level of data protection and data asset mobilization rights and responsibilities.
1. Offer Universal Performance Metrics: Provide a computable rule base to assess various aspects of project performance with concrete and standardized data, so that the metrics of project performance would make sense to all parties. Operationally, this means that project participants will all be sharing a set of commonly known performance metrics to help distinguish their levels of contribution. In case certain disbute arises, the resolution should focus on the nature of rules, so that the disbute resolution can be shared by future projects.

## Proposed Activity
The immediate participants would include teams and individuals who are willing to conduct work in the following three stages:
1. Constitutional Framing: Writing the rules of engagement/participation, where all teams and individuals can follow and share data assets to re-imagine the global supply chain. The outcome of this stage will be a operational instruction to define the Constitutional Rules of Engagement (CRE). This stage of the development will start immediately, starting in December, 2020. The primary working platform will be a Github project, and will be written in the format of Markdown(MD) language. So that all participants of this exercise will be using an Open-ID authenticated on GitHub.
1. Project Proposals: Based on the above mentioned Constitutional Rules of Engagement (CRE), the project invite anyone around the world to submit proposals, and start sharing project proposals to invite Talents, Technology Integrators, and Territorially dependent resource contributors to endorse the proposals. This stage is simply a proposal invitation and review process, and all proposals will be shared amongst the participants based on CRE’s entry and exit rules.
1. Project Execution on progress monitoring: Project proposals that are admitted by the Design Challenge Committee(DCC) will receive a package of integrated resources to execute the project. This data set will be organized using online Project Management tools, ideally based on Open Source software libraries, so that the data assets can be made as transparent as possible. More importantly, all projects will be tracked using some common project management data format, so that its execution effectiveness can be measured accordingly.

## Initial Participants

This MDC **_intends to to invite_** the following organizations and individuals to participate in the Design Challenge. The overall program is organized by Tsinghua South East Asia Center (TSEA), a Post-Graduate Research/Educational Institution based in Bali, Indonesia. The founding members of MDC includes: United In Diversity Foundation, Council on Extended Intelligence (CXI), and Piaget Institute. We also welcome independent entrepreneurs, university students and faculty members are all invited to participate in the any of the three stages of activities. The expected roles of the first three invited institutions are listed here:

1. United in Diversity Foundation will be responsible of providing administrative personnel, initial funding, and other operational basis of kicking off the three stages of activities. 

1. Council on Extended Intelligence, a global brain trust organization, co-founded by MIT and IEEE, that will provide the advise and intellectual vision for how to shape the participative design activities, data agency governance, and  ongoing refinement of metric-collection, performance diagnose practices.

1. Piaget Institute’s Project Management team, an online project management educational program to be rolled out in year 2021. This project management team will provide expertise and educational assistance to help all participants to better utilize existing project management techniques and tools.

The other participants include major university participants, such as Tsinghua University, and educational institutions around the world, to provide expertise and talent pools to conduct project management, localized skill and knowledge transfer. Local entrepreneurs in Bali, Indonesia, who are practicing data-driven (food) supply chain integration efforts to alleviate social impact during Covid-19 will be amongst the initial trial members to test the waters. The goal is to leverage the Talents, Technologies, and Territorial opportunities using a globalized data agency that is sustainable and self-adaptive. Operationally, the initial performance metric is to bring all participants to use a common data exchange platform to conduct modern project management practice with mobile data services.

## Program Schedule

The proposed program will be conducted as a continuous online activity starting in December 2020. Then, it will choose a few critical dates to run in-person and online workshop to bring participants into the data platform of collaboration. The goal is to elevate the digital competence/literacy of a wide range of Talents, Technology Suppliers, and Territorial Resource Operators. They should all be using existing and popularly practiced data exchange/collaboration tools, such as Git/Github/Gitlab services, as well as open source  or free-of-charge project management tools, such as Phabricator and Asana. The goal is to enable a large population to be competent in organizing and exchanging resources using the already ubiquitous mobile and cloud-based computing resources. The program will demonstrate the benefits of using existing and low cost collaboration tool to alleviate imminent social pressures such as food distribution and work opportunities. By enhancing the digital collaboration skills of a wide range of workers, going beyond Information Technology professionals, who are already familiar with working at home or remote collaboration, this program intend to enable a larger population to be competent in delivering their values through online and digital collaboration processes. The program has the following three major milestones.

1. During January of 2021, two 2-day events that are separated by one or two work week should be conducted at multiple locations around Bali, Indonesia, and other collaborating locations. These small hackthon/writathon-like events will serve as educational workshops for helping participants of any ICT skill levels to start using the proposed project management tools. The measuring metrics includes but not limited to :
1. Enabling participants to install and operate Git to share data asset amongst their team members.
   1. Install and operate project management tools, such as Phabricator/Asana, on their laptop and mobile devices. This will enable participants in mobile locations to upload and observe the progress of all relevant activities.
   1. Understand and agree to a set of project performance metrics. Participants will learn to read simple diagrams, such as project completion charts, Gantt charts (project dependency charts), and other forms of project-level performance metrics info-graphics. The goal is to enable participants to become cognitively aware of tools and the information presented in these online tools could help them measure and monitor the overall progress of the projects they participated.
   1. Conduct simple surveys of participants, and measuring whether they have perceived productivity increase or decrease. 
   1. Propose a second wave project management learning event.
1. Early February 2021, a new version of Meta-Constitutional Framework to be published on Github, and invite the next round of activities.

## Summary

This Design Challenge is to help a wider population to benefit from existing ICT-enabled infrastructures through utilizing Online Project Management practices and tools.  The productivity of modern workforce, and the efficiency of Supply Chain management can be improved through educational programs that is adapted to a wider range of audience. By putting Online Project Management tools into the hands of a pragmatic operational context, such as having food supply chain managers to work with farmers and delivery people, many imminent social challenges could be alleviated with minimum technology and knowledge infusion. The same principle can be applied to many other areas of global supply chain. The key point of the design challenge is to offer a generic project management platform to enable better observability of human and organizational participation. The potential of this Design Challenge can only be realized through authentic operational programs, such as the coordination of physical, information, and knowledge supply chains on a global level. A significant amount of the interactions of these supply chains/networks can already be conducted using existing tools and methods, the first phase of this program is to use online and offline workshops/hackathons to stimulate interests as well as opening up the awareness of online project management tools.

# References

https://www.fordfoundation.org/work/learning/research-reports/roads-and-bridges-the-unseen-labor-behind-our-digital-infrastructure/

# Contact
Please leave comments in the project wiki: https://github.com/benkoo/MetaDesingChallenge/wiki.

# License
Meta Design Challenge is released under the [LGPL-V3 license](LICENSE).

