{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1133\margr1133\margb1133\margt1133
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 Project Management Performance \
\
\
Introduction to Earn Value Management \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The development of metrics on Project Management is quite an effort to a company. This is quite a challenge  to a small company since the measuring process takes a lot of time of the resources. This is why some Project Managers (PMPs) think that calculating this metrics are only useful for projects with more than 100 people involved.\
However, it\'92s not that simple, since there are organizations that can have projects that cost millions with a very small team, or in a very short time, and a minor deviation on scope can jeopardize more than the project itself.\
\
Metrics are like compass for projects, they don\'92t decide or judge but they help on guidance and they are directly proportional to project risk, they become more important as the project risk rises. C-Levels often require some qualified information  for crucial decisions. Some decisions can be \'93C-Level killers\'94 like change management decisions. Support this actions with no information on the background or worst, wrong one, are certainly the same as declaring a \'93manager funeral\'94.\
\
Metrics for projects are well studied and published in documents like \'93Standard for Earn Value Management\'94, so why is it so hard? Or, why companies keep on having difficult to apply?\
It\'92s the practice on business as usual, since the reality shows that measuring daily issues and controlling change requests require disciplined technology that needs to be ready for it.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Project Management Technology Quotient (PMTQ)\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \
\
\
\
According to Project Management syntax, KPIs are created through calculation of Earn Value Management Systems (EVMS). EVM consist in a group of metrics that use resources project time and cost. This measurements supposed to help the communication, but it\'92s not a decision maker. If well interpreted can give a productive forecast for the course of the project. The challenge in measuring performance is very painful for companies even with software support with a time clock integration. \
\
\'93No leader is oblivious to digital disruption!\'94 (PMI, 2019). To raise the level of PMTQ (Project Management Technology Quotient), EVM must be simple and fluent among the teams and its project execution. In summary, a project plan has no control capacity of measurement efficiency, costs or effectiveness during its execution, if it doesn\'92t measure through time while it\'92s being executed.\
\
Project management performance requires planning just like any other knowledge area, not all metrics should count and not all procedures need to be taken care, but as all good projects it demands a good planning that are influence from size of the team, size of the project, cost of the project, risk of the project, and so on.\
\
In the days of today, it\'92s important to add the \'93digital\'94 as an important tool for decision-makers and raise the level of PMTQ of their organization. Therefore, an organization should have a PMO well supported in order to adapt to all environments as expected. \
This means essential outputs such as templates of projects should be created on a global form and published not only as pre-plans but also the projects executed so that all organizations, in a whole, should \'93lessons learned\'94 together on how to improve their working system.\
\
PMTQ at maximum level requires that the company members have some knowledge of all their enterprise process and have friendly technology that can support it at organizational level.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Templates and the crucial data for performance\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \
\
Templates need metadata of type of projects. \
Software can store several templates into libraries, chained by types, that can be shared to the world. Attached is a document which contains a Typology BreakDown Structure, called \'93MetaFilePM\'94 which consists on a metadata for projects templates. This document is editable and should be the key to tidying up the history records of millions of future plans and executed projects.\
\
The goal is to provide this metadata as a toolKit to any project management software, as well as convert project plans or executed to a universal template, in order to be imported to any software as a service.\
Projects executed are extremely necessary as project templates because they give their lessons learned, plus the time executed compared with the time originally estimated. Like this, plans are important but are not tested. Execution gives all the actions and mistakes taken, fundamental to avoid any error when a similar package, or simple task is repeated.\
\
Types should not be confined to themes of project only. \
Inside the themes or in some cases transversally, there are other typologies to be considerer which are described on typical knowledge areas of Project Management like:\
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Project Risks\
Project quality\
Project stakeholders\
Project time/schedule\
Project cost\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 but also, obviously by the size, members and their efforts\
Additionally, add the ratio with the organization or portofolio. This last type refers directly to the environment culture. Explaining, if the company works only on scientific high research where certainty is very uncommon, a project that is very risky won\'92t necessary be more considerer than other projects. The opposite happens if the company is e.g. a Bank or Insurance company, where stability is a requirement and if the project is too risky, double efforts on concerns will be made.\
\
As summary, templates of project execution give us background, and this background also prepare the future by the metrical data of the performance of the project. Of course, this executions need to be well documented, in an universal form that can be escalate to many other scenarios.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \'93The Standard for Earned Value Management\'94, Global Standard ANSI/PMI 19-006-2019, \
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \
\
\
Going on specific what EVM measuring and project performance is all about, here is a presentation summary of what and how is the calculation process according to PMI (Project Management Institute).\
EVMS - Earned Value Management System is a set of principles, methods, processes, practices and tools  for managing project performance. Performance measurement Baseline (PMB) is the integrated scope, cost and schedule baselines used to manage, measure and control project execution. EVM uses a \'93Time-phased integrated PMB\'94\
\
Simple answers to questions such as:\
\pard\tx20\tx360\pardeftab560\li360\fi-360\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone {\listtext	1.	}\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone Are we delivering more or less work than planned?\
\ls1\ilvl0\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone {\listtext	2.	}\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone When is the project likely to be completed?\
\ls1\ilvl0\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone {\listtext	3.	}\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone How much effort is required to complete the project?\
\ls1\ilvl0\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone {\listtext	4.	}\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone Who is driving the significant cost and/or schedule variances? \
\pard\pardeftab560\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
EV - Reality according to the work performed approved\
PV - Estimated work done (no material costs, it\'92s measure on the schedule basis) in time\
AC - Estimated total cost of the work already performed (in money)\
BAC - Project budget approved\
\
Those indexes are the basic starting points to calculation. \
_____________ _________________ ________________\
\
SPI = Schedule performance index\
CPI = Cost performance index\
\
SPI and CPI work much together and in the case of teams only, their value is always exactly the same, because there are no material resources. It\'92s common on development teams.\
\
In a practical way, if we have the estimated and real time of a task we are able to determine the performance index by dividing estimation from real time.\
\
These 2 indexes are the most common ones since we can know daily, weekly or monthly, or by project, by team or by organization\
\
_____________ _________________ ________________\
\
After, there is one more level of indexation, which are normally less used due for it\'92s complexity to use daily.\
\
EAC - Estimation at completion\
ETC - Estimation to complete\
TCPI - To complete performance index\
\
This measurements helps the communication, it\'92s not a decision maker\
Gives a forecast in many terms predictable \
\
But, specifically, the one is crucial and very important to use while managing a project it is TCPI, because it can tell, in a very early stage, if the team is able or not to finish the project \
\
This last one, TCPI is the most painful to measure and basically 90% of the project managers don\'92t normally know, in their business as usual, what is for. It\'92s quite common, after studying to the certification process, most of them simply forget.\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 References
\f1\b0 :\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf2 \
\
}